OSDOCS-18136: scrubbing GWAPI docs of OLM subscription references (#110739)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/enable-gateway-api-ingress-operator.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// networking/ingress_load_balancing/configuring_gateway_api/assembly-enable-gateway-api.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="enable-gateway-api-ingress-operator_{context}"]
= Enable the Gateway API for the Ingress Operator

[role="_abstract"]

> To configure the Gateway API for use on your cluster, you must create a `GatewayClass` resource. During the creation of the `GatewayClass` resource, the Ingress Operator installs a lightweight version of {SMProductName}, an Istio custom resource, and a new deployment in the `openshift-ingress` namespace.

Reviewer: The "an Istio custom resource" is not accurate 4.22+ (and a bit of a implementation detail that probably doesn't need to be surfaced anyways). The wording is a bit tricky - we no longer install OSSM operator, but we do use it's internal library. Something like this may make sense:

```suggestion
To configure the Gateway API for use on your cluster, you must create a `GatewayClass` resource. During the creation of the `GatewayClass` resource, the Ingress Operator installs a lightweight Istio control plane, based on {SMProductName}, in the `openshift-ingress` namespace.
```

Author: Got it. Thanks!

metadata:
  name: openshift-default
spec:
  controllerName: openshift.io/gateway-controller/v1
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
The `controllerName` must be exactly as shown for the Ingress Operator to manage it. If you set this field to anything else, the Ingress Operator ignores the `GatewayClass` object and all associated `Gateway`, `GRPCRoute`, and `HTTPRoute` objects. The controller name is tied to the implementation of Gateway API in {product-title}, and `openshift.io/gateway-controller/v1` is the only controller name allowed.
====
+
.. Run the following command to create the `GatewayClass` resource:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f openshift-default.yaml
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
gatewayclass.gateway.networking.k8s.io/openshift-default created
----

.Verification

. Verify that the new deployment, `istiod-openshift-gateway`, is ready and available:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get deployment -n openshift-ingress
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                       READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
istiod-openshift-gateway   1/1     1            1           55s
router-default             2/2     2            2           6h4m
----

> . Verify that the `GatewayClass` custom resource has been accepted by the controller by running the following command:

Reviewer: It might be also worth adding the new conditions we added to the Gateway Class when we removed OLM (it happened simultaneously in 4.22+). 

The enhancement explains them https://github.com/openshift/enhancements/blob/master/enhancements/ingress/gateway-api-without-olm.md#gatewayclass-conditions

I don't think need to explain each condition, but it maybe good enough just to have the user run a command to examine `CRDSReady` and `ControllerInstalled`. We could either add an additional step, or just loosen this command:

```
oc get gatewayclass openshift-default -o jsonpath='{.status.conditions[?(@.type=="Accepted")].status}'
```
to something like:
```
oc get gatewayclass openshift-default -o jsonpath='{.status.conditions}'
```

To dump all of the status conditions and mention to check `CRDsReady` and `ControllerInstalled`. They have a lot of info, so it may be best to just say something like:
```
CRDsReady: True and ControllerInstalled: True are the expected healthy states
```

Author: Oh, great catch. In a previous PR, we added those conditions to the GWAPI doc set but we should definitely incorporate them into the verification step.

====
+
.. Run the following command to create the `GatewayClass` resource:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f openshift-default.yaml
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
gatewayclass.gateway.networking.k8s.io/openshift-default created
----

.Verification

. Verify that the new deployment, `istiod-openshift-gateway`, is ready and available:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get deployment -n openshift-ingress
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                       READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
istiod-openshift-gateway   1/1     1            1           55s
router-default             2/2     2            2           6h4m
----

. Verify that the `GatewayClass` custom resource has been accepted and the controller is successfully installed by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get gatewayclass openshift-default -o yaml

Reviewer 2: only doing `oc get gatewayclass openshift-default` gives an output of the gatewayclass status, might be good to add that output

Author: Okay, good call. I've added a truncated example output

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// networking/ingress_load_balancing/configuring_gateway_api/assembly-enable-gateway-api.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="enable-gateway-api-ingress-operator_{context}"]
= Enable Gateway API for the Ingress Operator

[role="_abstract"]
To configure Gateway API for use on your cluster, you must create a `GatewayClass` resource. During the creation of the `GatewayClass` resource, the Ingress Operator installs a lightweight Istio control plane, based on {SMProductName}, in the `openshift-ingress` namespace.

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* You have installed the {oc-first}.

.Procedure

. Create a `GatewayClass` object:
+
.. Create a YAML file, `openshift-default.yaml`, that contains the following information:
+
.Example `GatewayClass` CR
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: GatewayClass
metadata:
  name: openshift-default
spec:
  controllerName: openshift.io/gateway-controller/v1
----
+

> * `metadata.name`: The name of your `GatewayClass` object. The name must consist of a maximum of 63 lowercase alphanumeric characters or hyphens (`-`), and must start and end with an alphanumeric character.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `metadata.name`: The name of your `GatewayClass` object. The name must consist of a maximum of 63 lowercase alphanumeric characters or hyphens (`-`). The name must also start and end with an alphanumeric character.
```

+
[IMPORTANT]
====
The `controllerName` must be exactly as shown for the Ingress Operator to manage it. If you set this field to anything else, the Ingress Operator ignores the `GatewayClass` object and all associated `Gateway`, `GRPCRoute`, and `HTTPRoute` objects. The controller name is tied to the implementation of Gateway API in {product-title}, and `openshift.io/gateway-controller/v1` is the only controller name allowed.
====
+
.. Run the following command to create the `GatewayClass` resource:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f openshift-default.yaml
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
gatewayclass.gateway.networking.k8s.io/openshift-default created
----

> . Verify that the `GatewayClass` CR has been accepted and the controller is successfully installed by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: .Verification

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="enable-gateway-api-ingress-operator_{context}"]
= Enable Gateway API for the Ingress Operator

[role="_abstract"]
To configure Gateway API for use on your cluster, you must create a `GatewayClass` resource. During the creation of the `GatewayClass` resource, the Ingress Operator installs a lightweight Istio control plane, based on {SMProductName}, in the `openshift-ingress` namespace.

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* You have installed the {oc-first}.

.Procedure

. Create a `GatewayClass` object:
+
.. Create a YAML file, `openshift-default.yaml`, that contains the following information:
+
.Example `GatewayClass` CR
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: GatewayClass
metadata:
  name: openshift-default
spec:
  controllerName: openshift.io/gateway-controller/v1
----
+
* `metadata.name`: The name of your `GatewayClass` object. The name must consist of a maximum of 63 lowercase alphanumeric characters or hyphens (`-`). The name must also start and end with an alphanumeric character.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> The `controllerName` must be exactly as shown for the Ingress Operator to manage it. If you set this field to anything else, the Ingress Operator ignores the `GatewayClass` object and all associated `Gateway`, `GRPCRoute`, and `HTTPRoute` objects. The controller name is tied to the implementation of Gateway API in {product-title}, and `openshift.io/gateway-controller/v1` is the only controller name allowed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The `controllerName` value must be exactly as shown for the Ingress Operator to manage it. If you set this field to anything else, the Ingress Operator ignores the `GatewayClass` object and all associated `Gateway`, `GRPCRoute`, and `HTTPRoute` objects. The controller name is tied to the implementation of Gateway API in {product-title}, and `openshift.io/gateway-controller/v1` is the only controller name allowed.
```

Author: Thanks! Got it fixed

====
+
.. Run the following command to create the `GatewayClass` resource:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f openshift-default.yaml
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
gatewayclass.gateway.networking.k8s.io/openshift-default created
----

.Verification

> . Verify that the `GatewayClass` CR has been accepted and the controller is successfully installed by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Verify that the `GatewayClass` CR has been accepted and the controller is successfully installed by running the following command:
```

Avoid the single step.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// networking/ingress_load_balancing/configuring_gateway_api/assembly-enable-gateway-api.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="enable-gateway-api-ingress-operator_{context}"]
= Enable Gateway API for the Ingress Operator

[role="_abstract"]
To configure Gateway API for use on your cluster, you must create a `GatewayClass` resource. During the creation of the `GatewayClass` resource, the Ingress Operator installs a lightweight Istio control plane, based on {SMProductName}, in the `openshift-ingress` namespace.

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* You have installed the {oc-first}.

.Procedure

. Create a `GatewayClass` object:
+
.. Create a YAML file, `openshift-default.yaml`, that contains the following information:
+
.Example `GatewayClass` CR
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: GatewayClass
metadata:
  name: openshift-default
spec:
  controllerName: openshift.io/gateway-controller/v1

> ----

Reviewer 3: Please add 
 
 
* `name`: The name of your `GatewayClass` object. The name must be compliant with the link:https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc1035[RFC 1035] specification. The name must not exceed the 63 lowercase alphanumeric characters limit.

This requirement stemmed from https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/111721/changes (closed as the change should happen in your PR to prevent merge conflicts).

Reviewer 3: Same for a kind: Gateway object description but I do not see this section in your PR:

https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/111721/changes#diff-7f88f06acfdd712478641893bb6299eab7d494f8c52127b9ba6a5f599666d051R120

Removed for a reason?

Author: Thanks! Done! And Gateway object is covered in another assembly as per our JTBD effort (not in this PR but in a previously merged one). This one mostly cleans up Enable and Understand. That original module you were working with got divvied-up and modularized based on the parent and child jobs we defined for this new GWAPI directory.
